---
layout: page
title: Art of Problem Solving 
subtitle: My experience as a grader/course assistant on a new platform 
tags: [Teaching, Mathematics, Python, Programming, Grading]
blog: true
---

I started competing in math competitions in elementary school. I competed in a variety of subjects throughout the years. To 
prepare for these competitions, I, like many other competitors, used a book series called Art of Problem Solving. The books 
would explain different mathematical concepts through problem solving techniques and through intense practice problems. There 
were books for all sorts of subjects, ranging from Pre-Algebra to Calculus. In later years, the authors that created the books 
started to expand his company to include an online community where math comeptitors across the country could communicate with 
each other on different concepts and competitions. 

With this shift to an online platform, it was natural for the company to take advantage of this new setting for math competitors
to learn from each other. So, different courses were created based on the different concepts discussed in the books. These 
courses would involve students registering for the material and joining an online classroom. The classroom was basically a large,
moderated chatroom where the professor would explain concepts based on a script and the students could send questions in the 
chatroom. Since the chatroom is moderated, the questions or responses the students send would show up in a queue only seen by 
the professor and course assistants. The course assistants can send private messages to the students whenever they have questions
and assist them with understanding material in real time. 

Eventually, the courses moved on from just math courses to Python Programming courses in order to expose students to programming
at an earlier time in their education. 

During this summer break, I wanted to make a little bit of extra money. I love teaching computer science and programming 
concepts, so I applied for a job as a grader and course assistant. I was accepted, and became a course assistant for 
Introduction to Programming with Python. 

This was an exciting proposition. I had been a Teaching Assistant for Computer Science classes at my university, where I could 
help people with material in person. This was on a completely online platform. I had to be active in a chatroom and monitor a 
queue to see if people had any questions or needed guidance with the material. I had to be very quick to respond and try to 
convey concepts only through text. There were only two course assistants for each classroom, where each classroom had about 
100 students. As one can imagine, this could be very stressful, especially when we were discussing more complex concepts like 
recursion. That being said, I loved every second of it.

I think that Art of Problem Solving's online course platform is a fantastic way to get more students involved in coding. My 
first coding course was in sophomore year of high school. My school did not offer it, so I had to take it on Florida Virtual
School. This online platform meant very little interaction with the teacher, and I had to mostly figure things out for myself.
Art of Problem Solving's format not only has the online chatroom where the professor is teaching the material directly to the 
students, but there are forums where students can post questions about exercises and homework, and the course assistants can
respond, similar to Piazza. 

I think Art of Problem Solving has done a fantastic job of promoting this new system of educating students in advanced 
math and computer science concepts. While there may be some drawbacks, such as the lack of interaction with a real human being,
this could potentially offer more students the opportunity to learn interesting subjects their school may not offer. 
